hello and welcome to another walkthrough for computer architecture for everybody.
So in this walkthrough we are going to walk through the assignment of building a half adder.
So in the instructions for this half adder we are seeing the reference diagram.
So it's really nothing more than exclusive OR at the top and an AND at the bottom with the input of A and B and a sum and carry as the output.
The output of the exclusive OR is the sum and the output of the AND is the carry.
And we just run the inputs to both of the gates and away we go.
So I can just leave this up and so let's just go ahead and start putting this in.
Input, place an input, place another input, let's place an exclusive OR.
And again remember these are just transistors, they're just kind of in functional block diagrams that are useful to us and then let's do an AND.
Place an AND and then wire up the inputs to the two inputs of the exclusive OR.
There we go, that input goes to the other input to the exclusive OR, then the input to the AND, both of them go to the AND.
I mean and really what we're doing is we're just making the truth table work, then we need an output.
The sum output is the exclusive OR and then the carry out output is the AND.
So both are true, so one plus one equals two, so that's a zero one, that's two.
So let's go ahead and tag these correctly.
Let's tag the top one sum, let's tag the bottom one carry.
Oh wait a sec, are we supposed to call it carry or carry out?
C out, so we're supposed to call that one C out, so the reference diagram is not quite right.
That's okay, C-O-U-T, that reference diagram was just from the lecture, so we got C out and then we have, let's go back to the specs.
Got inputs of A and B, let's tag the input of A, tag the input of B.
Okay, so we have one plus one equals zero carry the one, zero plus zero is zero carry the zero, zero plus one is one carry the zero.
So this looks like it's working pretty well.
You can take a look at the truth table, right?
So this truth table is zero of A and a one of B and the sum should be one and the carry out should be one and so it looks good.
So you can sort of verify this, you can manually manipulate the one and the zero.
It's a good way to remember how half adders work, so let's go ahead and start the grading.
It says we got all required components are properly labeled, we got an A and a B and a sum and a C out.
And then we got an XOR and an AND gate, that's good, and now it's going to do all the four truth tables, zero zero turns into A of zero, B of zero turns into sum of zero, C out of zero.
A of zero, B of one turns into a sum of one and a C out of zero, A of one and B of zero is sum of one, C out is zero, and then we finish and away we go.
So I hope this little walkthrough of how to do a half adder assignment in the Gates layout tool for computer architecture for everybody has been helpful to you.